Greetings...  Contained in this distribution are Alpha AXP X-windows
binaries that run on the SimpleScalar/Alpha simulators.  All programs were
built with the DEC C compiler (version DEC C V5.2-036 on Digital UNIX V4.0
(Rev. 564.32)) with optimization level "-O5" and linked statically with
the "-non_shared" flag.

All programs contain two top level directories:

  dist/ - contain sources and data files, pre-configured for Alpha build
  exe/  - statically linked Alpha binaries and data files

Directions on running the benchmarks follow (replace "sim-fast" with your
simulator of choice...):

  ** povray - Persistence of Vision Ray-Tracer

  to run:

    cd povray/exe
    sim-fast ./x-povray povray.ini -W320 -H200 -F +D -Q4 +I showoff/mist.pov

  you should see a window pop up, in which Povray will render a bridge
  through a river mist.


  ** xanim - Multiformat animation/video/audio viewer for X

  to run:

    cd xanim/exe
    sim-fast ./xanim -Cn ./schnecky.mpg

  you should see two windows pop up (one control, one view) in which
  xanim will image a cool little video, NOTE: xanim does a significant
  amount of preprocessing of the input file, so be patient...


  ** xdoom - iD Software's DOOM, a first person shooter game

  to run:

    cd xdoom/exe
    sim-fast ./alphadoom -playdemo rockin

  you should see a single window in which a DOOM demo will play, if the colors
  seem messed up, move the cursor into the DOOM window, this will install
  the correct color map, hit escape to get the main menu, from which you
  can start your own game or quit the demo.  NOTE: if you get a colormap
  error during startup, you'll need to configure Xserver into 256 color
  pseudocolor mode, as this is required by DOOM, alternatively, get an
  Xserver that supports visual emulation.


  ** xlock - An X windows-based screen saver

  to run:

    cd xlock/exe
    sim-fast ./xlock -inwindow -nolock -delay 0 -h	(lists all options)
    sim-fast ./xlock -inwindow -nolock -delay 0 -mode bouboule
    sim-fast ./xlock -inwindow -nolock -delay 0 -mode mountain
    sim-fast ./xlock -inwindow -nolock -delay 0 -mode swarm

  you should see a single window pop up into which xlock will draw various
  things, depending on the "-mode" option, use "-h" to the see the modes
  available, I've listed a few above that I've tested; NOTE: don't forget
  the "-nolock" option as this disables password checks which will fail on
  non-OSF Unix machines.


NOTE: I've tested these programs on SimpleScalar/Alpha build on Alpha OSF
Unix and Linux/x86 machines.  My X configuration requires that I run the
programs on one machine and view their output on another via the network.
My X server is eXceed version 5.1 running on Windows NT version 4.0.  My
Xserver is configured in 256 pseudocolor mode, as this mode is required by
DOOM.  If you have problems running on a local host to the same machine,
try setting your DISPLAY variable to 127.0.0.1:0.  Please report
problems/fixes/comments/suggestions to taustin@cse.ogi.edu.

NOTE1: if when you attempt to run these programs and you get "invalid" or
"unimplemented" system call errors, your host cannot handle the system
calls that these programs are making; for example, these programs cannot
be run live on Windows NT because there is no easy way to emulate the
socket support required by the Xwindows libraries.  You've got two
options: a) get to a more Unix-like little-endian machine, or b) get
someone who can run these benchmarks to generate external I/O traces (EIO
traces are supported by SimpleScalar 3.0 and later) and then run the
external I/O traces.  External I/O traces of these programs will work on
any host that can build SimpleScalar/Alpha.

NOTE2: I've done some preliminary analysis of these programs: povray,
xanim, and xdoom perform all rasterization within the simulated program.
These codes only use to the Xserver to manage colors and image pixels and
images.  Xdoom, for instance, draws the each game frame with a single
XPutImage command, all rasterization occurs in the simulated program.
Xlock on the other hand uses the Xserver for rasterization, the simulated
program performs geometry setup operations and then sends high-level
drawing commands (e.g., XDrawPoly) to the Xserver.

Regards, -Todd Austin
September 1998


